# Digital-writing-folio

## Biographical Note (27/03/26)

### 1. //What types of writing do you do (e.g. fiction, nonfiction, poetry)?//
I mainly focus on fiction writing, gearing towards the speculative-fiction, dystopian, and magical realism genres. Through character-driven narratives and immersive world-building, I love exploring themes of humanity, love, and the ugly, complex, beautiful human experience. A lot of what I write is inspired by texts and authors that fall into these themes: Hanya Yanaghiara and Margaret Atwood, some of my favourites, for example. I'm currently working on a novel project which is perfectly representative of that, but I also enjoy shorter form fiction and non-fiction, which ted to be heavy on the magical realism. As a generl rule of thumb, I always with themes wrapped under a heavy blanket of metaphors, symbolism and sometimes a touch of mythological referencing. 

### 2. //What tools (or techniques) do you use to write? Why do you use them?//
When it comes to my writing process, the beginning is probably the hardest part of it all, just getting myself to the point where I feel confident enough about an idea to get it onto the page is the only real challenge I face. Often when I get stuck, it's because I'm obsessing of my //plans// for a project before it's finalised. It's kind of a given then that a lot of my tools go towards my planning. Any resource wheer I can archive, organise, and store my brainstorms, character sheets, timelines, and worldbuilding information is a must. Some of my favourites right now include: toyhouse (for storing character info mainly), actual physical journals (often used for a physical brainstorm when I'm stuck), and good ol' google docs (where my work is easily saved and spread across multiple documents, and where I can often share them and receive feedback). 

### 3. //How do these tools shape the way you write (e.g., constrain or generate)?//
I feel like I can say that I definitely owe a lot of credit to this obsession with a planning of mine. While it does make writer's block stick around longer than is ever necessary, it more importantly means that once I finally start the writing, I know the plan, where I'm taking these chartacters of mine and exactly why. It's important to me that a lot of thought be put into the stories I create and by constantly writing and talking about the bigger projects, I find so much joy in planning out all the minute, irrelevant details, because they're relevant to me. Although, it is still a flaw as much as it is an advantage, and I'm still learning to accept the sudden and impulsive changes that occur while writing, to be somewhat spontaneous with it all.

### //4. What are you curious about writing in the digital environment?//
As I've started to explore digital writing, I've really come to love it all of a sudden. When I entered this first class, my expectations for what we would be doing were completely wrong, in the best way possible. The coding side of it all has been fascinating, and I may have found a lifelong love for it, if it's something I end up pursuing further. Merging my writing into this digital space, and witnessing how other artists and writers are doing so, has opened up this interactive relationship between the text and reader, and I love the interesting dynamics that occur when it brings out frustrations, emotions, experinces that are rarer in printed fiction. It definitely reminds me video games, for which I am very passionate about; the stories that can be told can be so much more powerful when the player/reader directly engages with this kind of medium, and when done right by the author/creator, I've seen how it can establish a connection between the audience and the characters, story, and themes unlike any other medium. I'm really excited to explore it more :)
