# Week 1: Post-class Swift Reflection
## Wed (04/03/26)
### 1. What makes a work a piece of E-literature?

E-literature refers to electronic literature/writing. This means any writing or storytelling which occurs digitally, and which at least
somewhat relies on its digital format to sustain its audience. Including but not limited to interactive fiction, choose your own adventure 
narratives, and hyperlinks.

### 2. Of the key examples above, which did you like most and why?

There was little to no time for me to view/read any of the texts besides Shade, and for this exact reason, I can definitely say it's
my favourite. The concept was intriguing, and I enjoyed the challenge of not knowing exactly what I was supposed to do. The frustrations
of having no instructions for how I was supposed to achieve my goal, a very specific goal, was reminiscent of video games. I've always
thought that the kind of engagement created between a reader (or I suppose a 'player') and these kinds of interactive texts is something 
that cannot be replicated in standard fiction. The immersion of Shade really hooked me, and I loved trying to figure out the goal behind 
these (I assume) intentional feelings of frustration, isolation, and the illusion of control.

### 3. What do you expect from this class? What do you hope to be better at by the end?

Immediately, this class is not what I expected, but I wouldn't say this is a bad thing. I'm pleasantly surprised and actually quite 
excited. I've never coded before, so my priority is definitely in learning and improving in this aspect. I hope to give myself a challenge 
in this way, and to open up opportunities for expanding my practice. 


# Week 2: Swift Reflections 

## Wed (11/03/26)
### What defines the ‘Three Generations’ of E-Lit that Flores refers to?

Flores defines the 'Three Generations' of E-lit as "[building] upon previous and contemporary technologies, access, and audiences to develop works and poetics that are characterisitc of their generational moment." The first exisitng before the Web and therefore experimentation with it, it had a small readership, only possible by seeking professors, academics, scientists, and staff in universities or film and radio, and eventually popularised by increased access to computers in the 80s. Though, it remained reliant on the distribution of physical media, and therefore reamined in smaller markets, eventually expanding wiht its increased popularity into gaming markets. Flores defines the second generation by the world-wide shift of the web, which introduced a growing number of practictioners with easy access to computers as well as more acccessible and user-friendly tools, like JavaScript, HTML, CSS, etc. This remained mostly online, but eventually expanded with conferences, presentations, and exhibitions. The most recent third generation strecthes from 2005 to the present (however, this essay was written in 2019, so I wonder what Flores would have to say about the 2020s). This era is defined by social media, and thus everything digitally and electronically related booms; there is increased demand for professions relating to it, graphic designers, programmers, coders and so on. But this popularity also brings discourse: what is E-literature, does social media classify as literature, are social media posts E-literature? This debate seems to be part of why Flores points out that each generation piggy-backs off of its former(s), that E-literature is a complex, multi-generational form of writing that changes alongside the internet and technology, and therefore is difficult to define as a singular, stagnant concept. 

## Thurs(12/03/26): AI and Ethics
### 1. In terms of AI and ethics, consider where your own boundaries are in terms of what is unacceptable or acceptable use of AI. What do you see as potential ethical use-cases of AI (e.g., for research, for furthering open-source knowledge, for testing new areas of learning)? 

There is a general feeling of discomfort that surfaces whenever I am asked to reflect on, discuss, or actually use AI. I've watched over the last few years as Generative AI has rapidly advanced from something anyone could easily detect, point out, and make fun of. Three years ago, images, art, and writing produced by ChatGPT was a joke. Something to mess around with. Now, only three years later, there is far more concern attached to the topic. I genuinely have to consider how successful my careeer as an artist, a writer can truly ever be under these conditions. I worry about my work being stolen and fed into AI sources. I worry that there is no future for me as a creative person. I don't quite feel comfortable sitting here and saying "I hate AI", and having that be the end of the statement. But then there is always a visceral reaction within me, an instant urge to blurt it out every time the topic arises. I hate AI. During today's class discussion, one classmate worded it exactly as I think fits. I specifically hate Generative AI. Artificial Intelligence outside of this has existed (I think) since computers have. There's nothing to hate about computers generating code in video games or Excel sheets. I hate the parts of AI that seem to encourage us to let go of creativity and interpretation, individuality, original thought. I hate the idea that people will want to think less. 

### 2. What are your hopes for the future of AI?

As AI continues to become more and more prominent, I hope that it also becomes, in ways, more regulated. I feel like it should be an opt-in, opt-out system, at least when it comes to volunteering our work to be entered into these databases that generative AI sources from. I kind of hope that we can look back on these 'early' days in the same way that we look back on the looser regulations of driving, for example. Like how we hear our parents talk about no seatbelts in a car, or smoking in restaurants and on planes, and think "Oh my god, that's so dangerous." I just hope that everything right now is the kind of sucky, dangerous, rights-violating, environmentally-dangerous phase of AI, where we don't quite know what we're doing, and that eventually we figure it out. 

# Week 3
## Wed (18/03/26)
### Reflect on your own relationship to the ubiquitous digital platforms of daily life. How do you currenly position yourself in relation to technology in your creative writing pratice?

When it comes to the ubiquitous digital presence in every day life, I admit that I'm very reliant on it. The purpose that these platforms mainly serve for me is around present, in-the-moment social interaction and contact, rather than an archive of my life or a streamline of thought. This means I generally avoid or am indifferent to things like X (formerly Twitter) or Reddit, and I'm not super active in positing on Instagram and Tiktok, though I do use them for alternative reasons. On the other hand, I frequent apps like Discord, and I am prone to scrolling and messaging on Tiktok and Instragam. From these examples, it can seem like a lot (and it probably is) but when I say I'm reliant on such platforms, it is for contact with others. I find community and connection very strong in these places, with people I know in real life or otherwise through fandom. The latter is definitely where it affects me the most, as I'm very engaged with and passionate about fandom spaces. I can understand how relying so heavily on these digital platforms can be detrimental to my overall relationship with technology, but I also can't see an alternative in the current world we live in. I think if treaded carefully, any app or platform can be used as a space for community, support, and connection. And if nothing else, I'm good at finding the good in this huge mess of bad. 

## Thurs (19/03/26)
### Reflect upon the importance of tracking tools of making (e.g., for iterative purposes, for troubleshooting, as research capture situated in a particular time (since tech evolves so quickly), to network/pool knowledge with peers, to situate ideas in relation to the field).

There's definitely importance in the act of self-archiving your own work. I find myself tracking the progress of my work most of the time in a passive way, simply through my use of Google Docs, which records a history of any document for which you can go back on and restore old versions of. I do, however, do it in a more conscious way with bigger projects or assignments. I like to keep multiple documents on my computer of multiple versions of a drafts for a single project. This means, later, I can look between drafts 1, 2, 3 and the final, and see exactly what had changed throughout. I think this kind of archiving is important for any writer, and most do it pretty unconsciously I'd assume. Not only can you look back on old drafts, analysing how you might've improved and potentially restoring/making a callback to something that worked, but it can also be used to create a network of peer feedback and workshopping. You can create folders containing plans as a way to keep track of your ideas as they develop. And years from now, you can look back. And years from them, yet again. I like being able to know who I was compared to who I am as a writer, to remember what was once important to me, to reflect on my developing skill. I like knowing who I am and what I write, and in immortalising what I write I immortalise who I am/was.

# Week 4
## Wed (25/03/26)
### Can you analyse the architecture (layers, strucutre, interactions) of the hypetext piece you read above in these terms?
_How to Knit a Human by Anna Jacobson_

If we consult Ryan's (2006) diagram on the interactive architectures of non-linear, interactive narratives, Anna Jacobson's _How to Knit a Human_ falls under the structure of 2b, 'Vector with side-branches'. _How to Knit a Human_ follows Anna as she wakes up in a psychiatric hospital, having lost many memories during therapy, and her struggles with everyday routine. I find it interesting how the piece's structure, this illusion of choice, is intricately tied to its themes; as the reader explores the piece, choosing different pathways, they always return them straight back to the main storyline. Like Anna, the reader can attempt to find divergences from this monotonous routine, but they have no real control in the final outcome. Additionally, if we turn to Aarseth (1997) to examine the relationships in _How to Knit a Human_ between author, narrator, narratee, and reader, the model it most identifies with (at least as I interpret it) is shown in figure 4.4. Aarseth describes that "as the reader jumps discontinuously between the narrative strands, the story seems to slip away and lose focus." (1997, p. 93). _How to Knit a Human_ explores an interesting relationship between reader and narratee, wherein the reader is made aware that they are not intended to fully identify with Anna, but rather that they are there to observe and disect the non-linear, complicated web of her mind. As they click through different options, all of which eventually leaving them with the same information, the continue to return to the same direct plotline: Anna and the monotonous routine of everyday life, as the reader attempts to comprehend it. 

## Thurs (26/03/26)
### Thinking about whatever seeds of ideas are gestating in terms of your main digital project for this class, situate your potential digital work both at a personal level and within a broader context/politics. What are your motivators for telling your particular story in the digital space? Does your emerging digital work speak to a broader ethics or politics, or does it relate to a specific community or movement, or else to theory or a certain tradition?

# Week 10
## Wed (13/05/26)
### Describe and evaulate with references: Key learning moments (“light‑bulb” moments); Insights from studio, group, and personal creative process; Connections to scholarly contexts from course readings; Reflection on how your work fits into the broader field of digital writing practice

I really think the root of my project I can link back to Week 2, when I was first introduced to the ["Crawl Space"](https://crawlspace.cool/) archive of digital works. I've specifically referenced Omayeli Arenyeka's _Grief Found Me_ in both asssesment one and two, and in many of my project iterations as a strong source of inspiration. When I first explored it, I was really intrigued by its format as a digital work and e-lit piece. Later, when we looked at Ergotic literature in Week 4, I would realise that my fascination with this particular piece was rooted in its ability to balance reader interactivity and narrative. Murray talks about "giving the audience access to the raw materials of creation runs the risk of undermining the narrative experience," yet "calling attention to the process of creation can also enhance the narrative involvement by inviting readers/viewers to imagine themselves in the place of the creator." (quoted in Hayles 2007). There needs to be a really strategic balance in order to create what Aarseth refers to as “nontrivial effort." (Aarseth(a.), 1997, p.2). I also like to think back to Ryan's explanation of the different guidelines of e-lit in _Avatars of Story_, specifically what she refers to as the exploratory mode format, wherein "users navigate the display, but ... have no impact on the destiny of the virtual world." (Ryan, 2006, p. 108). I definitely applied this narrative format to my own developing work of e-lit: in _Messages from Kyle_, the viewer is given the illusion of choice, the autonomoy to pick dialogue options. However, ultimately, the end-result and overarching narrative is the same: Kyle still corrupts the computer and it ends in a blue screen of death. However, I feel as though having this illusion of choice is itself indicative of the tone and experience of the protagonist. Their computer is being hacked, and they are actively losing control; both the protagonist and Kyle have a strong sense of isolation and being cornered by the situation. It is this exact experience which I find unique to e-lit (and narrative-based video games) as a medium. There is a constant, unconscious relationship formed between the audience and protagonist; inevitably, the user finds themself in the same position as the protagonist, the physical relationship that forms between them creates a connection and level of empathy for the story that I believe cannot be recreated in the same way in other mediums. This is why narrative video games, and now e-lit, fascinate me. By developing _Messages from Kyle_ from my coding playground, I feel like I've unlocked a new area of my practice which I really do want to pursue, as I believe I can convey the intentions behind new works which I would not be able to if they were written under any other format. 

## Thurs (14/05/26)
["_Archival bots: My mother, my model for language_"](https://southerlylitmag.com.au/archival-bots-my-mother-my-model-for-language/)
 
# 1. What place do affect and emotion have in digital works?
I've mentioned it before but I truly do believe that digital works are able to bring out this special kind of emotional connection between the reader and the text in a way that I find almost impossible to replicate in other mediums. That's not to say that other kinds of literature cannot bring forth strong emotion, but I feel that the way that an author can play with autonomy-giving it to, taking it away from the viewer-is so unique to digital works. This is where I believe affect is really strong; the viewer is given the responsibility and perhaps the honor to influence the narrative they are experiencing. 

# 2. How does bringing theory and/or critical readings into reflective practice enrich discussions of method and practice?
The only way we can truly understand a field, a skill, a concept, or a genre of anything is first, by practice and second, by experiencing it oursleves, by immersing ourselves in the opinions and works of others. By bringing theory and critical readings in one's reflection of their practice, we can almost find actual 'proof' as to why our failings had failed and our successes were sucessful. We can find a thought we had, an emotion we felt, and seek out who else has thought it, what they felt, and in this way, find an explanation to how and why our writing process happens. 

# 3. What narrative arc do you detect in this piece and/or how does adding a narrative frame to reflective writing make a piece more satisfying?
I suspect that for this piece, the narrative follows the classic _Hero's Journey_ narrative arc. We see a fairly conventional experience described by Hedley, where she starts out deflated by her grief. She says, "When I lost my mother, I lost compassion for myself, to treat myself kindly as one hopes a mother treats a child." The JenAI model was a small dream, an idea which she slow builds up to. As the arc builds, she begins to see through her model her mother's voice restored in how it is able to speak through the model; this here, is the falling action and resolution to a beginning goal. 
